CHAPTER I
I am by birth a Genovese, and my family is one of the most distinguished of that Republic.
My ancestors had been for many years counselors and syndics, and my father had filled several
public situations with honor and reputation. He was respected by all who knew him for his
integrity and indefatigable attention to public business. He passed his younger days perpetually
occupied by the affairs of his country. A variety of circumstances had prevented his
marrying early, nor was it until the decline of life that he had become a husband and the
father of a family. As the circumstances of his marriage illustrate his character, I cannot
refrain from relating them. One of his most intimate friends was a merchant who, from
a flourishing state, fell through numerous mischances into poverty. This man, whose name
was Beaufort, was of a proud and unbending disposition, and could not bear to live in
poverty and oblivion in the same country where he had formerly been distinguished for his
rank and magnificence. Having paid his debts, therefore, in the most honorable manner, he
retreated with his daughter to the town of Lucerne, where he lived unknown and in wretchedness.
My father loved Beaufort with the truest friendship, and was deeply grieved by his retreat in these
unfortunate circumstances. He bitterly deplored the false pride which led his friend to a
conduct so little worthy of the affection that united them. He lost no time in endeavoring
to seek him out, with the hope of persuading him to begin the world again through his credit
and assistance. Beaufort had taken effectual measures to conceal himself, and it was ten
months before my father discovered his abode. Overjoyed at this discovery, he hastened to
the house which was situated in a mean street near the Reuss. But when he entered, misery
and despair alone welcomed him. Beaufort had saved but a very small sum of money from the
lack of his fortunes, but it was sufficient to provide him with sustenance for some months,
and in the meantime he hoped to procure some respectable employment in a merchant's house.
The interval was, consequently, spent in inaction. His grief only became more deep and rankling
when he had leisure for reflection, and at length it took so fast hold of his mind that
at the end of three months he lay on a bed of sickness incapable of any exertion.
His daughter attended him with the greatest tenderness, but she saw with despair that
their little fund was rapidly decreasing, and that there was no other prospect of support.
But Carolyn Beaufort possessed a mind of an uncommon mold, and her courage rose to support
her in her adversity. She procured plain work, she plated straw, and by various means contrived
to earn a pittance scarcely sufficient to support life.
Several months passed in this manner. Her father grew worse, her time was more entirely
occupied in attending him, her means of subsistence decreased, and in the tenth month her father
died in her arms, leaving her an orphan and a beggar. This last blow overcame her, and
she knelt by Beaufort's coffin, weeping bitterly, when my father entered the chamber. He came
like a protecting spirit to the poor girl who committed herself to his care, and after
the interment of his friend he conducted her to Geneva and placed her under the protection
of a relation. Two years after this event Carolyn became his wife.
There was a considerable difference between the ages of my parents, but this circumstance
seemed to unite them only closer in bonds of devoted affection. There was a sense of
justice in my father's upright mind which rendered it unnecessary that he should approve
highly to love strongly. Perhaps during former years he had suffered from the late discovered
unworthiness of one beloved and so was disposed to set a greater value on tried worth.
There was a show of gratitude and worship in his attachment to my mother, differing
wholly from the doting fondness of age, for it was inspired by reverence for her virtues
and a desire to be the means of, in some degree, recompensing her for the sorrows she had endured,
but which gave inexpressible grace to his behavior to her. Everything was made to yield
to her wishes and her convenience. He strove to shelter her, as a fair exotic as sheltered
by the gardener, from every rougher wind and to surround her with all that could tend to
excite pleasurable emotion in her soft and benevolent mind. Her health, and even the
tranquility of her hitherto constant spirit, had been shaken by what she had gone through.
During the two years that it elapsed, previous to their marriage, my father had gradually
relinquished all his public functions, and immediately after their union they sought
the pleasant climate of Italy and the change of scene and interest attendant on a tour
through that land of wonders as a restorative for her weakened frame.
From Italy they visited Germany and France. I, their eldest child, was born at Naples
and as an infant accompanied them in their rambles. I remained for several years their
only child. Much as they were attached to each other, they seemed to draw inexhaustible
stores of affection from a very mine of love to bestow them upon me. My mother's tender
caresses and my father's smile of benevolent pleasure while regarding me are my first recollections.
I was their plaything and their idol, and something better, their child, the innocent
and helpless creature bestowed upon them by Heaven, whom to bring up to good and whose
future lot it was in their hands to direct to happiness or misery according as they fulfilled
their duties toward me. With this deep consciousness of what they owed towards the being to which
they had given life, added to the active spirit of tenderness that animated both, it may be
imagined that while during every hour of my infant life I received a lesson of patience,
of charity and of self-control, and was so guided by a silken cord that all seemed but
one train of enjoyment to me.
For a long time I was their only care. My mother had much desired to have a daughter,
but I continued their single offspring. When I was about five years old, while making an
excursion beyond the frontiers of Italy, they had passed a week on the shores of the Lake
of Como. Their benevolent disposition often made them enter the cottages of the poor.
This, to my mother, was more than a duty, it was a necessity, a passion, remembering
what she had suffered and how she had been relieved. For her to act in her turn the guardian
angel to the afflicted.
During one of their walks a poor cot in the foldings of a veil attracted their notice
as being singularly disconsolate, while the number of half-clothed children gathered about
it spoke of penury of its worst shape. One day, when my father had gone by himself to
Milan, my mother accompanied by me visited this abode.
She found a peasant and his wife hard working, bent down by care and labor, distributing
a scanty meal to five hungry babes. Among these there was one which attracted my mother
far above all the rest. She appeared of a different stock. The four others were dark-eyed,
hardy little vagrants. This child was thin and very fair. Her hair was the brightest
living gold, and despite the poverty of her clothing, seemed to set a crown of distinction
on her head. Her brow was clear and ample, her blue eyes cloudless, and her lips and
the molding of her face so expressive of sensibility and sweetness that none could behold her without
looking on her as of a distinct species, a being heaven-sent, and bearing a celestial
stamp in all her features.
The peasant woman, perceiving that my mother fixed eyes of wonder and admiration on this
lovely girl, eagerly communicated her history. She was not her child, but the daughter of
a Milanese noblewoman. Her mother was a German and had died on giving her birth. The infant
had been placed with these good people to nurse. They were better off then. They had
not been long married, and their eldest child was but just born. The father of their charge
was one of those Italians nursed in the memory of the antique glory of Italy, one among
the sciavi Agnor Frumenti, who exerted himself to obtain the liberty of his country. He became
the victim of its weakness. Whether he had died or still lingered in the dungeons of
Austria was not known. His property was confiscated. His child became an orphan and a beggar.
She continued with her foster parents, and bloomed in their rude abode, fairer than a
garden rose among dark-leaved brambles. When my father returned from Milan, he found, playing
with me in the hall of our villa, a child fairer than the pictured cherub, a creature
who seemed to shed radiance from all her looks, and whose form and motions were lighter than
the chamois of the hills. The apparition was soon explained.
With his permission, my mother prevailed on her rustic guardians to yield their charge
to her. They were fond of the sweet orphan. Her presence had seemed a blessing to them,
but it would be unfair to her to keep her in poverty and want when Providence offered
her such powerful protection. They consulted their village priest, and the result was that
Elizabeth Levenza became the inmate of my parents' house, my more than sister, the beautiful
and adored companion of all my occupations and my pleasures.
Everyone loved Elizabeth. The passionate and almost reverential attachment with which all
regarded her became, while I shared it, my pride and my delight. On the evening previous
to her being brought to my home, my mother said playfully, I have a present for my victor.
Tomorrow he shall have it. And when, on the morrow, she presented Elizabeth to me as her
promised gift, I, with childish seriousness, interpreted her words literally, and looked
upon Elizabeth as mine, mine to protect, love, and cherish. All praises I bestowed on her
I received as made to a possession of my own. We called each other familiarly by the name
of cousin. No word, no expression could body forth the kind of relation in which she stood
to me, my more than sister, since till death she was to be mine only.